# Bank-Marketing-Effectiveness-Prediction

The dataset is from a direct marketing campaigns(pone calls) of a Portuguese banking institution. The marketing campaigns were based on phone calls. The classification goal is to predict if the client will subscribe a term deposit (variable y). Built machine learning models using Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest Classifier, K nearest Neighbour Classifier and Naive Bayes Algorithm and compared them using the evaluation metrics score. We started with importing and understanding the dataset by observing the rows and columns, shape, info about the datatypes, statistical description about the numerical columns and counting the null values of each column. Then replaced the null values with suitable values and averages and made the columns ready for Exploratory Data Analysis. We proceeded with the EDA and performed various Univarite, Bivariate and Multivariate analysis to get the idea of the dataset and to make necessary transformations and manipulations to be then used for data pre processing for modelling and also gain business insights from them. We formulated some Hypothesis and did hypothesis testing using different statistical tests such as Z-test, Chi Square test and accepted/rejected the hypothesis based on the p values. Then we proceeded to feature engineering section. We did feature manipulation where some columns were dropped and missing values imputations were done. We handled outliers using Z score method, used One Hot encoding,Binary encoding and get dummies for converting the data into numerical features. We used Train test split and splitted the data into 70:30 and handled the data imbalance using SMOTE technique. Further we scaled our data, selected important features for modelling and applied Machine learning classification models one by one and used hyperparamater tuning for increasing the efficiency of the models. The models were Decision Trees, Random forest, Logistic regression, KNN and Naive. We evaluated our model using various evaluation metrics such as Confusion matrix, Accuracy, Precision, Recall,F1 Score and ROC-AUC Curve. Comparing the performance of all the models we found Random Forest to be most accurate with 87% accuracy, 39% Precision and 33% Recall values. But for our purpose Logistic Regression was the best performing model with 77% accuracy, 80% Precision and 73% recall since we wanted predict most true positives. We concluded our project by trying to predict the dependent variable using a completely new dataset and pointed some business insights helpful for the banking institution.
